Good morning.
My name is Armin Briegele.
I'd like to welcome you to
Managing Clients and Preferences
with Mac OS X and Leopard Server.
That's quite a mouthful.
I wanted to call the
session the joy of MCX.
My name's Armin Briegele.
I'm a solutions architect
for Apple Education.
And that means I get to travel
around the country and sell my ideas.
Other people's ideas as mine,
which is always a good job.
So why are we here?
Why are you here?
If you have to manage a lot of Macs,
and personally I think a lot of
Macs is anything beyond three.
If you find yourself re-imaging
or reinstalling those regularly
because the users mess them up
and you just need to repair them,
and the quickest way,
instead of finding out
what is actually wrong,
is just to re-image them.
If you use Remote Desktop a
lot of the time,
and I love Remote Desktop,
but I think there's better tools in
addition to Remote Desktop to use this.
And if you get these calls all the time,
and I know you do because I've got them,
the users accidentally messed up
their settings and are lost and
don't know what to do anymore.
I once got the call of a very
distressed user who said,
I deleted the internet!
And it took us a while to
figure out what was going on,
and in the end we found out that she had
dragged the Safari icon off the dock.
And couldn't find the internet anymore.
Probably to admire the poof,
I don't know.
By the way,
if you ever encounter this call,
the correct answer is, oh, it was you.
So we'll talk about MCX.
And in case you've been
wondering what that means,
MCX is Managed Client for Mac OS X.
Another big mouthful,
so I'll be using MCX all the time.
We will also talk about launch
restrictions and how you can
limit applications to keep
the users out of trouble.
We will talk about preference manifests,
what they are, how they help you,
why they're a good thing,
and why you have to file bugs
to your favorite application for
the developer to provide one.
And if we don't run out of time,
we will show some actual
applications and some neat use
cases that hopefully go beyond
what you find in the documentation.
I will talk about control and
restrictions and limiting the user a lot,
because that's what
managing clients is about.
But before I do that,
I want to give one caveat,
and I use this as little as necessary.
The controls should support
and guide the users,
not hinder them.
Build fences, not walls.
I work in education,
especially in education,
people see that they
can limit the students,
and sometimes I think they
go completely over the top.
The idea of these controls is to
build a consistent environment
so that the users will find their
way around wherever they are,
no matter which machine they log into,
no matter which version
of the OS they log into,
so they can't accidentally
delete the internet.
Maintaining more controls also, very,
very practically, means more work for us,
the admins.
You want to restrict that,
so don't go over the top with that.
You can introduce conflicts
in your management,
and tracking those down
can be very tricky,
though we will show you some tools today.
And don't try to use technology
as the solution for what
basically is a social problem.
Again, especially in education
with the students,
but I think it's true everywhere.
It might be more applicable and
actually a better approach to deploy
and enforce acceptable use policies,
use a social solution
to a social problem.
That said,
let's go and control the users.
So what is MCX?
Managed Clients for OS X.
I said that.
Basically, it's the preferences,
the preferences that each and every
application uses on Mac OS X hosted
in a central place on the server,
a central point of
administration for those.
And it will be in the directory.
And with those, you can override,
complement, or preset the local
preferences of a user.
If you're... Just a
quick question in here.
Who's coming?
Who's new to the platform?
Not that many.
Who's familiar with the Windows world?
Wonderful.
Think group policies.
They don't work the same.
They're not exactly the same,
but they have the same
idea and the same goal.
So mentally replace
group policies with MCX.
The local preferences live
in home library preferences,
most of them at least.
And they start in what
we call the plist format.
And they have the
application domain name,
which is basically
internet URL turned around.
For example, com.apple.doc.
And then .plist, that's my file.
If you look into that,
there's an application
called PList Editor,
which you get with the developer
tools to look at those.
And you can see that this
has a specific anatomy.
I get a key value or key name,
which has a type and a value.
And I get a list of those.
Some of these might be
arrays and other things.
Actually, these are XML files.
So if you open them in a text editor,
you get to see this.
And again, you see the list,
you see the key value,
and you see the actual value.
Well, this is not quite true,
to be honest.
For performance reasons,
I think ever since Panther,
we've been storing plists
in a binary format,
so the access for them is faster.
And to see the raw XML,
you have to convert them first
using the plutil command.
And then you can open them in TextEdit
or your favorite text application.
Some third-party text
editors do this step for you.
There's a command line
tool that goes with this,
and if you've been
trawling Mac OS X hints or
similar pages for hacks,
then you've probably encountered
the defaults command,
which is a really useful tool for this.
So there's a read command, defaults read,
you give the application
domain and the key name,
and it will give you the value.
And there's an equivalent,
which is write.
Again, you give the application
domain the key name,
the type, and the value,
and that way you can set the value
without messing with the XML files.
And a picture is worth
more than a thousand words.
A demo is certainly worth a lot more,
and with that,
I will ask Tony Graham to come up
to the stage and show you this.
Thanks.
So how many new to the platform?
There was one person out there?
Where are you?
The rest of you probably know
that preferences for applications
are stored in your home folder.
In this case, I'm the administrator.
In my library folder, under Preferences,
are most of the preference files
for the applications I use.
And typically,
especially applications that use
Mac OS X's Cocoa frameworks for
reading and writing preferences.
I think after you see some of the
stuff today discussed and demonstrated,
you'll see why it's to your
advantage as a user and
administrator for your application
developers to use that system.
I have a simple application
installed on this computer.
It's called Manifestation.
And if I launch it,
it gives me a few settings,
a few options for settings.
So this is the kind of thing you
probably find yourself setting a lot.
Serial numbers for applications,
maybe a slider of some kind,
and then perhaps turning off the feature.
And then perhaps turning off the
feature of an application to check
for software updates automatically.
These serial numbers generally are...
Quite a bear to remember,
so I'd like to keep them in a text file.
Let's enter the serial
number now for manifestation.
And the idea here is you don't want
perhaps the user on first launch
to be presented with this dialog,
so let's set it, let's preset it.
Let's set the volume slider to four,
and we've already said I don't want to
check for updates when it's launched.
So if we quit the application and look
in my preferences folder sorted by date,
you'll see now that my simple
application has a preference file.
And if I try and open that in TextEdit,
which was my...
Previous favorite way to do this.
You'll see that that binary file is
getting in the way of you editing those,
although some of the
strings will show up.
So let's close that and show
you that some third-party text
editors will do the right thing.
Text Wrangler is one of them.
BBEdit is another.
So dragging these binary preferences
to one of those text editors will
let you see the format of the XML.
And I can go through
here and change this to,
let's say, 5, for example.
So editing the preference
file while the application is
not live is generally safe.
I'll save that and quit.
And if I relaunch Manifestation,
it should have a volume setting of 5.
Armin mentioned the Property List Editor,
and you'll get this if you install
the developer tools on your system.
And the beauty of using
Property List Editor,
which will open these by
default if you have it,
and if you double-click on it,
is that you can walk the preference
tree here using disclosure triangles.
It's a little bit easier to
read than your text editor,
and you can edit
preferences here as well.
So we'll save that change, quit,
and relaunch manifestation,
and sure enough,
the volume is set to six.
Now,
for those of you who want to automate
this or who prefer the command line,
there are tools for that as well,
and the defaults command is
probably the most popular one.
Let's do com.your, you know what,
I can never remember that,
so let's just drag that guy in here.
One of the things you're gonna
need to remember is generally
the .p list is left off of your
defaults read commands.
So by hitting that now,
I can see what the
setting is and I can...
Play that with a write command.
And let's set the volume to two.
There we go.
All right.
And then finally,
Armin mentioned that for those of
you who do prefer to use something
like TextEdit to edit these files,
there is a PLUtil command to do that.
And it will modify that preference file,
turn it into the old-style text format,
and that will then allow you...
[Transcript missing]
So working locally works great
if you have a single Mac.
So I have my single Mac,
I have my plist files on
that for several things.
But if I have more than one Mac,
this gets really tedious.
I mean, as a last fix,
you could use something like
Apple Remote Desktop to blast out a
default command to fix something quickly.
But imagine you have lots and lots of
Macs and different flavors of Macs.
You probably want to manage the mobile
Macs differently than the desktop Macs.
And you probably have different
user groups in your organization
that you want to manage differently.
And then keeping track of the plist
files on the client is really,
really tedious.
So you need a central place
to store all of these files.
And you probably want a way to store
different files for different groups
of computers and groups of users.
And in Mac OS X,
that place is the directory
service in Open Directory.
And because Open Directory is
this great flexible framework,
you could store it in a non-Apple
directory service as well.
I won't go into the detail for this.
There are sessions that talk about
directory services and how to integrate.
There's one on Friday.
And also,
there's a lab that you can go to.
And there are also great sessions
on ADC from previous years,
developers conferences,
that you should look and
learn about integrating.
The tool you use to manipulate
the preferences in the directory
service is Workgroup Manager.
And we provide a UI to that.
And you just saw plist editor to
work with the local plist files.
And surprise, it looks very similar.
I have the same anatomy.
I have my key name.
I have my type.
I have my value.
And I have something new,
which is the MCX domain,
or the permanence of my
setting in the directory.
Because if you manage it
centrally for a lot of users,
you might want to do different
things than just setting a value.
There are basically four
things that you can do.
The first one is do nothing,
which is always good.
So if you set the
MCX domain to none or never,
it will be unmanaged or never set.
The user has full control
over this particular value.
You can set it to once,
which means if the value
is unset on the client,
it will be preset with your
value from the directory service,
rather than the default value
that the application developer
thought was a smart thing.
Best example is Safari.
Apple, of course,
thinks the Apple start page
is a good starting page.
You might think differently.
You want to set it to your
organization's homepage or start page,
so you can preset this.
As soon as the user changes this,
though... To his preferred start page,
your setting gets overwritten.
The third setting is often,
and this is not available
in the graphical interface.
This is only available in
the plist style details view.
And this is...
For use with applications that kind of
don't really work perfectly with this,
some applications get really
unhappy if they can't change the
default while they're running.
Once means it's set every
time the user logs in.
Every time the user logs in,
it gets reset to whatever you
set in the directory service.
Afterwards, the user can change it.
Next time he logs in and out,
it gets reset to what you think is great.
That means often.
And then finally, there's always,
which this is set,
the user can't change it.
It's forced from the directory service.
And if the application reacts
nicely to the information it can
get from the directory service,
it should gray out the control in the UI.
And you can see down here,
if you look in Workgroup Manager,
you have the three choices, never once,
no always.
And they go with three of these settings.
Again, the preferences in the directory
service are stored as XML data
in attributes in the MCX settings
attribute in the directory service.
And you can go into the
inspector and look at that.
Before Leopard,
we had to edit it in there,
and that was really painful.
We also added commands to DSCL,
which is the command line tool to
interface with the directory service.
And you can go in and read the raw XML.
You can just go into the database,
look for a user,
and read the MCX settings attribute,
and this will spew out tons of
XML if you're managing this user.
Again,
the raw XML really isn't that much fun,
so we added some command line tools.
There's an MCX read,
which works like the default command.
So I have a search path.
I have to point the command to an
object in the directory service.
I have my application domain.
I have my key name.
And it will return me the MCX domain.
In this case, this is managed always.
And the value.
And same as the defaults command,
I have an MCX set,
which is the equivalent
to defaults write.
I have to work directly on
the LDAP server in this case
to get the right permission,
and usually I would have to authenticate.
I left that out in the slides.
And again, I have the application domain,
the key name, and the value.
Note that setting the value
to zero or false is different
than unsetting the management.
And because you probably want
to unset the management a lot,
depending on what you do,
that's something we use very frequently.
There's a shortcut for that,
so you can use MCX delete
to unset the management.
One really great tool that
we've added is MCX Export.
So if you're testing this,
and please test this,
not on the live users,
these settings can get very complex.
And once you've got it set up on
your test group and you want to
migrate it to the production group,
that used to be a very painful process.
You had to basically either go and
copy the raw XML or do it by hand.
And there's now an MCX Export command
that will basically export
the XML into a file.
And then there's an equivalent
MCX Import that will take a plist
file and import it onto another
object if you want to archive
your settings and restore them.
There's more MCX commands to DSCL,
and there's an MCX Help command
to list all of them.
For some reason, they didn't make it into
the man page in Leopard.
All of this command line hacking
really makes you appreciate this.
So you can see the graphical interface.
We try to provide settings for
the most common tasks in the
graphical interface so you don't
have to mess around with these.
And again, I will ask Tony to show these.
So if we want to manage these
preferences from a directory
instead of on each local machine,
we can stuff them in a place
where the user can't modify them.
Those preference files are
in your local home folder,
and you have read and
write access to those,
and you can change them.
But if you stuff them in a directory
using something like Open Directory or
another directory service,
you can put them in a place,
attach access controls to it,
and prevent people from changing
settings that you want to enforce.
So in this open directory setup,
let's go ahead and authenticate
as the directory administrator.
I've got a number of users,
as well as some groups,
and the groups have
users attached to them.
I've got computers,
and then I've also got lists of
computers or computer groups.
And I can go through and pick a user.
Let's pick on Joel today
and click on Preferences.
And at this point,
WorkRoot Manager has a bunch
of preset graphical options for
things that you can control.
I can, for example,
go into the dock and say I always want
to control Joel's dock experience,
and I specifically do not
want him to run dashboard,
or at least not have
dashboard on the dock.
So if we apply those settings,
a bit of XML,
which is essentially identical to
what you saw in the preference file,
got stuffed into a field
in his user record.
And you can see that user record by
going into the Workgroup Manager's
preferences and enabling this
All Records tab and Inspector.
It's not on by default,
but when you turn it on,
you'll get a warning,
and then you'll see this bullseye.
And the bull's eye allows
you to go and do things like,
I want to select my users,
and do you remember who I set?
Was it Joel?
So I can go into Joel's user record,
and here is where his short name is,
and password, not password,
sort of short name, long name,
his preferred shell,
all of the things that
describe his user account.
But in here also are the MCX settings,
this field right here.
If you double-click on
it and do a select all...
and copy that and paste
it into a text editor.
You'll see it's, in essence,
a combination of all of these various
preferences that would have ordinarily
been on that local file system.
So we can go through and change
all of these things through
this interface if you like,
or we can go, let's get Joel again,
and preferences.
If you look in the Details tab
in WorkRootManager,
you'll see the various
settings that you've set,
double-click on them, and as Armin said,
you've got more of a disclosure
triangle option to set it often.
Let's say you want this thing,
every time he logs in,
to be set a certain way,
he can change it all he
wants during his session,
but as soon as he logs back in,
it's reset to the way you like it,
just stuff it in the often.
We'll set it to always,
and I can go through and change
a number of settings here.
This is the dock setting.
We're going to do some work
with John here as soon as
I can see him alphabetically.
Found him, not alphabetically.
And let's make a couple of
changes to John's experience.
Let's go to the doc.
And if you know John like I know John,
you know that the only thing
he really does is play games.
And
and do Unix, right?
So let's let him have access
to the chess application,
right?
And again, when I say access,
I really mean just having it on the dock.
For some people, that's the same thing.
In John's case,
All right, great.
So we've got Terminal.
We'll apply those settings.
And if I log in as John,
We should see, oh, I forgot one thing.
Did you guys see what I forgot?
Notice that Chess and Terminal
are in fact on the dock here,
but so are all of the other things that
John has been goofing around doing.
So let's get back into Workgroup Manager.
And uncheck this box that says let
the user have their own things too,
right?
So you're just going to
take away that capability.
So again,
we can go through in Preferences
and Details and see all those
settings and double-click them here,
and we can edit them in this
user interface if we like.
Now, Apple has provided a number
of these interfaces for you,
but there are applications that you may
want to manage that are not in here,
and you can import those.
So by clicking on the Details tab
here and clicking Plus,
I can go through to my, in this case,
my home folder, under what library,
right?
And then Preferences.
And my application was called what?
dot your company, right,
dot manifestation dot plist.
Now I'm gonna import this into the
always section of John's user record.
So now I can double-click on
this setting and I can say,
in John's case,
I for sure want to have that
serial number preset for him,
but I also want to set the volume.
Let's do that to 10.
Now, I can't go to 11.
That's too loud.
Right?
So if we set that to 10 and
go log in as John again,
you know, I can already tell John's going
to have trouble with this because
I didn't put it in his doc,
so we're going to have to find it.
It's in the Applications folder, right?
So if I launch Manifestation,
and let's try and drag it to the doc.
No, it's not going to let me.
All right, fine.
But it will let me launch it,
and sure enough, it did set it to 10.
No, as you suggested, 11 is one louder,
so let's take it all the way up.
And then, let's relaunch it.
Oh, wait a second, no, it's not safe,
right?
11 is not safe, it's one louder,
it's just too loud.
All right, so John's been forbidden
from cranking the volume up.
And what's nice about this is
this is an application that
wasn't designed by Apple,
no UI was provided by Apple,
but you were able to import those
preferences and provide those.
And remember that you may use this
to control someone's behavior,
but you may also use it just to
provide a base to start from.
So you may use this to make sure that
everyone's serial number is preset and
the volume is where you wanna start from,
but put it in the once setting.
So they get that to begin
with and then do let them
change it to suit their tastes.
All right, so that's the UI.
The command line options
are nice as well.
Let's take a look at, as Armin said,
there's a DSCL MCX read option.
So let's take a look and see what
John's preferences look like.
I'm gonna use DSCL.
I'm going to point it at
my Open Directory master,
which happens to be
this system right now.
I'm gonna tell it to use MCX read.
I have to tell it which
record I wanna read.
In this case, it's John's user record.
And then I want the particular
application domain that I want to see.
So if I hit that, you'll see,
sure enough,
he's set to 11 and the value is 1.
And there's an equivalent set to that.
So let's do that.
And here we're going to
say check for updates.
All right,
did I have it set to zero before?
Yeah, so that application is always gonna
check for updates on the Internet.
I'm gonna set it to zero.
Put in my directory
administrator password,
and then pop open Workgroup Manager.
And if we go back into
the inspector here,
you should see that's
now been set to false.
So any way you like it,
whether you script it,
whether you go in through the GUI,
it does the same thing.
It stuffs those in the user records.
You can do the same thing with groups.
Stuff those in group records,
stuff them in computer records.
They tend to overlap at that point.
You can, in some cases,
run into conflicts.
I think Armin's going to talk
about that more in a little bit.
And then one other set of tools
that you want to be aware of is
the MCX import and export set.
So let's see if we can--
dump John's preferences to a text file.
And I think Armin showed you
the syntax for this as well.
As mcx export,
we're gonna do an output file,
and I'm gonna put that on my desktop,
and I'm gonna call it johnsprefs.plist.
And I specifically want just the
settings for this one application.
So now I have a plist
file on the desktop.
When I double-click it,
it should look familiar by now.
All those same settings.
So I now have a local copy of that,
and the beauty of using MCX import
to do that is I can then reverse
that and say I want to...
Let's import those settings
to Joel's record from the file
that I've saved on my desktop.
So if we go into Joel's record now,
we should see the same
settings set now for Joel.
So if you have gone through
and established a large number
of managed client settings
on an Open Directory master,
and you want to migrate
those to another server,
for example, or back them up,
you can use MCX import and export
to dump all that stuff out,
re-import it.
Or if you've attached, for example,
let's say you picked a lab and you said,
all of the computers in this
room can print to these printers,
and you want to do it
again for another lab,
you don't have to go through
and check all those boxes,
just dump it and re-import it.
And I think that's it for now.
Back to Armin.
So Tony has already mentioned
that there's many places,
many objects in the directory that
you can store MCX settings in.
You can store it in user groups.
You can store it in computer groups,
which is a new feature in Leopard.
You can store it for individual
computers and for individual users.
We demo with individual users
because it's nice to make fun.
You probably don't want to go to the
individual records down too much.
You probably will be working most of
the time on the group level for the
user groups and the computer groups.
Another new feature in Leopard is that
if a user is a member of multiple groups,
and I guess most are,
it will actually take the settings
from multiple groups and try to
merge them in a sensible way.
Of course, once you start managing
on different levels,
you will run into conflicts.
And there's a hierarchy to these.
So in general, the hierarchy goes from
bottom to top in this case.
So computer groups supersede user groups.
Individual computers
supersede computer groups.
And the user settings will
supersede everything else that will
give you the complete priority.
However,
it's even more complicated than that.
We can nest groups as well,
a feature we added in Tiger,
which is great.
It's really, really useful.
That makes things so
much more complicated.
And on top of that,
you can nest computer groups.
Again, a very, very powerful tool,
but it just makes the conflict settings.
So much more confusing.
Within groups or computer groups,
same thing, there's another hierarchy.
And the hierarchy is that the children
will supersede the parent settings,
and they will supersede the
grandparents if you have any.
If the groups are on the same level,
we will actually choose the
alphabetical first group first.
We had to do some choice.
If anything else fails, denies,
will wins, over-allows.
And all of this is different
for those settings which
aren't check marks or values,
but which are lists,
like the doc settings.
Those will be concatenated and merged.
So the one thing you have to
take out of this is don't mess
around too much with this.
The rules are there, but the chances of
messing up are really big.
So in case of, let's say,
the doc settings, if I have different doc
settings for different groups,
say the chess club gets the chess
application and the designers
get Photoshop and Illustrator,
and a user is a member of both,
they will be merged,
which is what you want to be,
what you want to expect.
And it will actually take all of
the icons from all of the levels
where I can manage and merge them
into one preset combined doc.
Yeah, you want to debug this.
You will have to debug
this once you've set it up.
And we actually provide a bunch of
tools that will allow you to debug this.
One of them, surprisingly,
is System Profiler.
In System Profiler,
we have a new setting,
which is called Manage Client,
and you can actually go in there.
It's a little hard to see here.
It will show you all the
composited MCX settings out
of the directory service,
and it will show you the source from
which object did this setting come from.
If you're expecting that my
account gets an auto-hide value
of false from the group object,
but you forgot that you once set
it on the individual user object,
you can actually see here where
the information comes from.
There's also a command line tool,
MCX Query, which basically does the same.
MCX Query has one big advantage, though.
It doesn't have to run for the
current user or the current
group or the current machine.
You can enter any object or any
combination of objects in the directory
service tree and have the compositor
run and give you the output without
actually having to log in as the
user to see how that's working.
And again,
by now you know how the output works,
and it will also show
you not only the value,
but where it comes from,
which object it comes from.
And again, Tony will show that.
All right,
so if we're in Workgroup Manager,
you'll see that there
are a number of settings.
That are kind of either-or settings,
and you'll see some
settings that are additive.
Let's start with some additive ones.
So let's, for example,
go to the groups and say,
all engineers are going to
have the following preferences.
Let's, again, deal with the doc,
and we'll always manage
their preferences,
and we'll say they're gonna get,
what should the engineers get?
Terminal?
That's in the wrong place, all right,
what else?
Terminal and Console, okay, yeah, good.
Those two are perfect.
If we apply these settings,
anyone who's in the engineers
group should get Terminal
and Console on their dock.
And to make things clear,
I'm gonna uncheck this,
allow them to have their
own thing checkbox,
just so you can see
these things in action.
If we also go into the field employees,
for example, and manage them,
What should field employees have?
Careful now, what's that?
Mail?
Makes sense.
And chess, right?
'Cause we're working from home,
so you really don't
know what we're doing.
Right.
And at this point,
if you're in the field employees group,
you should just have
those two applications.
So let's take a look
and see what John has.
Now remember that this is additive,
so he's got the things that I set
on his user record and the things
I set for his group record.
And if we managed his computer in a pool,
he'd also have those as well.
So let's log out.
And if we go into John's record now,
sorry, the groups, and take a look,
there is an Employees group,
and the Employees group consists
of engineers and field employees.
Let's go to the engineers,
and let's add John to
the engineers group.
And take my word for it,
if we log in as John, you're going to see
engineers and field settings.
What we want to do, though,
at this point is let's show the
difference between additive stuff,
like lists, and Boolean things.
So if we go to Preferences for
Engineers and go to Finder Settings,
I can say under Commands,
I want to always manage these commands,
and I want to make sure that
engineers cannot restart or shut down.
That's cheating.
And we'll go to the field employees.
and we'll allow them to
restart and shut down.
Now based on, this is the pop quiz,
based on what Armin said,
what would you expect John's account
to have on a Boolean conflict
like this between two groups?
No restart, shutdown, raise your hands.
Restart and shutdowns, raise your hands.
Okay, we'll see what happens.
So is it what you expect?
Yeah.
But we can still log off.
So let's do that and take
a look at some tools.
Actually,
let's go back in there because Armin
made a very astute observation,
which is the Apple System Profiler
can help you figure out why he
got the settings that he got.
If we go into About This Mac and
choose More Info,
and Apple System Profiler will launch.
There's the Manage Client Setting.
And if we go down to,
this one actually goes into
the Login Window Settings,
believe it or not.
It'll actually tell you where
you got the setting that you got.
But that will only show you the settings
for that user while they're logged in,
and you probably don't have the time.
to do that for each user as
you're troubleshooting it.
So there's a command line tool
called MCX Query that can help you.
And let's take a look and
see what that looks like.
Let's dump John's settings.
I can specify from the command
line which user and which group
I want and output that to a file.
This one's gonna go on the desktop and
it's gonna be called John D Management.
I'll throw that away.
And this is actually more
of a text file style,
although you have some options
to how this data is presented.
Let's do the same thing
for a user called Dave O.,
He has nothing because that
particular group has no settings.
So I'm gonna cheat and go into,
Engineers, no, let's go into that user.
Okay, what can we do to Dave today?
I know.
No, no, no, this is even better.
All the way down and
position it on the right.
There we go.
All right.
So now we've got Dave's settings.
There's a text file showing
those values that I just set.
And Armin had a handy
tip for comparing these.
I mean, as you're comparing these text
files and setting lots of settings,
it's going to be difficult
to see how they line up.
There is a developer tool called
File Merge that developers can
use to see differences in code.
You can actually route these.
See if I can find my...
You guys see it?
Second one?
From the bottom.
From the bottom, that one, thanks.
So this one is going to take two files,
and the OpenDiff command line tool
will take two files and send them
to the graphical file merge tool.
So if I do that,
You get, I mean, it's sort of cheating,
but you get kind of a
graphical display about the
differences between these files,
and differences are highlighted in blue,
so you can see things like, you know,
and you have to be able
to decode these settings,
obviously,
but sort of a handy way to view the
differences between those files.
There we go.
Back to Armin.
For most users,
removing something from the
dock is good enough to restrict
them from launching it.
However, we do have a more powerful way
of doing that in Leopard now.
And basically,
application launch restrictions let
you decide who gets to launch what.
And to really enforce that,
we now digitally sign applications.
Most Apple applications that
are installed in Leopard
already have the signature.
But if you have a third-party application
that you would like to control,
and you just drag it
into Workgroup Manager,
Workgroup Manager will actually
prompt you to add that signature.
And it will add a file
called Code Resources,
which is a text list of all the files in
the application's bundle with a digital
signature for each of those files,
to the bundle of that application.
You're physically changing the
application bundle on the disk.
That means, if you want this to take
effect on all of your clients,
you need to distribute
this Code Resources file,
this digital signature,
somehow to all of your clients.
If you want to use application
launch restrictions,
you have to think about this very,
very early in your rollout process.
Otherwise, it will be just a pain
to take care of it later.
You probably want to do
this on the machine that you
build your final image from.
If anything in the
application bundle changes,
the digital signature of that file
won't match the digital signature in
the list of all the digital signatures,
and the launch permission for
that application will be revoked.
The user will get an information,
you can't launch this application,
it doesn't match the signature.
And they will probably call you.
So if you roll out updates,
you need to re-sign the application
and make sure that all of the updates
that reach the customer or the
user will get the same signature,
the one that the directory
services knows of.
Because this is a very
complicated process,
it's very secure,
but also a very complicated process,
we also added a different way
of managing launch restrictions,
and that is by folder.
So you could generally say,
I've got my image locked down,
I have control over it,
anything that's in the
applications folder,
the user can launch,
which is our example down here.
But then you probably
think about it and say,
wait, there's some stuff in application
utilities that I really don't
want the user to launch.
So we also have a blacklist
or a disallow list,
and you can say, well,
applications folder is fine,
but applications utility isn't,
application server isn't.
And since most applications are folders,
you can actually add individual
applications into here,
which works really great.
And as all lists,
you can manage this on different
levels and different groups,
and these will be merged.
If you set one disallow folder,
You have to set an allow folder,
otherwise the user won't
be able to launch anything.
As soon as you set anything
in the launch restrictions,
only those applications
that you explicitly allow
will be allowed to launch.
If you use a mix of permissions
by folder and digital signatures,
applications that are signed and
permitted to the user will be able to
launch no matter where they are stored.
There's some applications
that don't behave quite well.
I will use Firefox as an example,
though recent updates of Firefox have
been working much better,
and I have big hopes for Firefox 3.
But they will actually modify the
application bundle while they're running.
So,
And that will obviously invalidate
their signature if you sign them.
And that means you can't
launch or use any signatures.
The way around this is to set
the allow folder to the root
of the application bundle,
and then you also have to set the
privileges correctly so the user
can actually modify the files that
he needs to modify so that the
application can successfully run.
But this opens a security hole,
because if the user is really,
really crafty, believe me,
I work for K-12 educations,
the students are really, really crafty,
they will copy a third-party application,
an unallowed application.
into that particular folder
where they have write permissions
and launch it from there.
So if you set write permissions to any
subfolder in an allowed launch folder,
you will have to set that
path to a disallow folder.
So beware of traps there.
If you want to use this to
really lock down the experience,
there's some traps.
A really useful tool once you've
signed the bundles and you have to
redistribute them is PackageMaker,
because it can basically watch what
changes and build a package of the
changes and distribute that out.
And Apple Remote Desktop,
if you want to do it after the fact,
or you do it on your original image,
and then you distribute
those out with your image.
Another great tool in this
area are preference manifests.
So we saw that the
graphical interface is nice.
That's something that's
comfortable to use.
But you will get to the limits
of the graphical interface very,
very quickly.
Editing XML-- no,
we don't want to do that.
Really,
a lot of problems can arise from there.
The detail view is a big help,
but you still have to manage
a lot of stuff individually.
And basically, you have to guess.
In unsupported applications,
you have to guess what
this setting means.
Most keys are a little explanatory,
but sometimes you have to
set up combinations of keys
to make things really work.
Just changing one setting doesn't help.
You have to change a group of
settings to the right things.
And this is where preference
manifests comes in.
Preference manifests are
provided by the developer,
they're part of the application,
and they are basically a list
explaining the preference settings.
And if a preference manifest
is present in an application,
Workgroup Manager will pick those up,
and it will give you
a list of preferences,
as shown in this case,
and tell you what they do,
and what values make sense.
And again,
I'd ask Tony to actually show that.
Great.
So the idea here is to get
developers to include preference
manifests with their application.
I don't have one with the
application that Armin wrote,
so I guess I know who
to talk to about that,
right?
I think I probably set it for John,
so let's take a look at John in
Preferences under Details.
But what you'll see is that
the preferences that are there,
the variables were pretty well-defined.
Check for updates, serial number, volume.
You don't have a guarantee that
the developer is going to use such
easy-to-read preference values,
so a manifest can be kind of handy.
And there are a number of
applications that do have manifests.
Let's see if we can see what happens.
If we go to the library folder
in Preferences and try and
find my Safari preferences.
I may not have them.
There we go.
There's the Safari plist.
So if you recall,
I imported a plist before for
the manifestation application.
Let's stick this in the often section.
So I just did that again with Safari.
Did I click the wrong one?
There we go.
Right, address bar includes Google,
true or false.
Address bar preferences were converted,
Some of these you're gonna mess with,
some of them you're
not going to mess with.
There's one that looks good.
Homepage preference,
you can set that to your own.
Apple's engineering team has
actually included a number of
preferences inside an application
on your system in /system/library,
and I think it's in core services.
And if you scroll through there,
Look for the managed client application.
This, among other things,
has a bundle of preference manifests
for a ton of applications that
are included with the system.
So rather than each application
having the preference manifest,
some of them are just all
bundled in one place here.
And if you import those now,
you get more sensible
descriptions for things.
I can go in, for example,
and say iTunes settings, always.
Let's get a new key in there.
And let's restrict explicit
content and set that to true.
So this, if applied to a computer list,
could set all of the
computers in a computer lab,
for example, to not use explicit content.
And again, the beauty of this is,
rather than going through when
you're building an image and checking
every conceivable checkbox and
then saving that out to an image
and deploying it and then realizing
that you forgot that one checkbox,
stick this in a directory server,
bind your clients to the directory,
and they will be able to use it.
and they will pick those
values out of there.
So there's some other handy ones in here.
Did they talk about folder direction
in the home directories session?
Good.
So this is kind of a handy thing.
To be able to take a variable
substitution for your home folder,
rather than having that
be in a user record,
for example, you could embed that right
within their managed preferences
for a computer list or a group.
Setting screen savers,
how many of you have set the
QuickTime Pro key on more than
one computer on this same network?
Yeah,
so these are the kinds of things you
can look at as magnifying your power,
checking a box in one place,
and spreading it throughout
all of your systems.
There's one other that I think
Armin wanted me to show,
and that was, was it in the Finder,
Armin?
And there it is right there,
sidebar settings.
So some of you have asked, for example,
to, let's get a new key.
Set up custom URLs or
define how the finder shows,
whether it shows network machines on
your network and that sort of thing.
Set those centrally and control all
the machines on your network that way.
I think that's it for now.
Back to Arm.
As you saw in our small example,
not all developers go to the
effort to provide the manifest.
So please,
with your favorite applications,
if you don't see that
they provide the manifest,
ask the developers, file bugs with them,
say this will make our life
so much easier and we have
3,000 licenses or whatever,
so that they know about this.
This is the link.
You can read it yourself,
but basically this is the link for
the developers on how to provide
manifests and why to provide manifests
and why they're a good thing.
So we showed some neat tricks.
The main starting point for this
is to take the application and
import it into Workgroup Manager.
We put a bunch of these files
into system library core services,
manageclient.app,
which will provide you a huge list
of preferences that you can use and
explore and play around with and preset.
You can manage the finder sidebar.
You can disable the automatic lookup
so you see all the Macs in your lab.
You can disable that.
You can preset certain volumes
or file shares of certain
locations in the sidebar.
Basically,
everything that's in the preference
control in Finder sidebar,
you can control through the details view.
You can preset registration
keys for QuickTime and iWork.
So if you have a volume
license for either of those,
you can preset those through
the directory service.
You can disable iTunes features,
which is very valuable
in education settings,
where you want to use iTunes because
of the podcasting functionality,
but you don't want them browsing the
iTunes store or sharing their libraries,
because Heyman's second rule
says that students will use every
possible means to communicate with
each other and turn it into a chat.
We had one school where the
students started changing
their iTunes library names,
and suddenly we had
iTunes libraries like,
the answer to question three is C.
So you can disable that.
They found something else afterwards.
We can do folder redirection.
In Tiger, it requires login hooks,
and it's now built into the MCX settings,
and you can take the caches folder
on a network home directory setting
and redirect it to a local folder
instead of moving all the small
cache files over the network.
There are a lot of related sessions.
There's the overview session,
Managing Mac OS X with Netboot Managed
Clients and Apple Remote Desktop,
which talks how this works
together with other tools that
we provide for management.
MCX is certainly not the only one.
There is a session that talks
about authorization services.
Sometimes the granularity
of MCX isn't deep enough.
Sometimes you want to control
whether the user gets administrative
privileges for a certain task.
You control that through sudo
and the authorization process.
It's quite complicated.
They will talk about
that in this session.
And then we have the Managed
Client Lab on Thursday.
So MCX controls the Mac OS X preference
model in a central database
through the directory,
and you can basically control
everything that lives in a plist file,
even if we don't provide a
graphical interface for it.
We have the details view and
the command line tools that let
you control everything that's
in that file or in that folder.
If you want to use application launch
restrictions and application signing,
it's a very, very powerful tool,
but you have to start
planning about this very,
very early in your deployment process
and during the maintenance as well.
And please ask all of your
developers for manifests,
and any developers that
are here in this room,
please provide manifests.